=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP12 - implementation of SOAP1.2

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::SOAP12
   is a XML::Compile::SOAP

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

**WARNING** Implementation not finished: not usable!!

This module handles the SOAP protocol version 1.2.
See F<http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12/>).

=head2 STATUS

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option      --Defined in     --Default
 encoding_ns   XML::Compile::SOAP  http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-encoding
 envelope_ns   XML::Compile::SOAP  http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope
 header_fault                   error
 media_type    XML::Compile::SOAP  application/soap+xml
 rpc_ns                         http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-rpc
 schemas       XML::Compile::SOAP  created internally

. encoding_ns => URI

. envelope_ns => URI

. header_fault => <anything>

=over 4

SOAP1.1 defines a header fault type, which not present in SOAP 1.2,
where it is replaced by a C<notUnderstood> structure.

=back

. media_type => MIMETYPE

. rpc_ns => URI

. schemas => C<XML::Compile::Schema> object

=back

=head2 Accessors

$obj-E<gt>B<encodingNS>

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<envelopeNS>

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<prefixPreferences>(TABLE)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<prepareServer>(SERVER)

=over 4

The SERVER is a L<XML::Compile::SOAP::HTTPServer|XML::Compile::SOAP::HTTPServer> object, which will
need some messages prepared for general purpose.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<roleAbbreviation>(STRING)

=over 4

Translates actor abbreviations into URIs.  For SOAP1.2, defined are C<NEXT>,
C<NONE>, and C<ULTIMATE>.  Returns the unmodified STRING in all other cases.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<rpcNS>

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<schemas>

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=back

=head2 Single messages

$obj-E<gt>B<compileMessage>(('SENDER'|'RECEIVER'), OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Single messages">

=back

=head2 Writer (internals)

$obj-E<gt>B<writer>(ARGS)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Writer (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writerConvertFault>(NAME, DATA)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Writer (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writerCreateBody>(BODY-DEFS, NAMESPACE-TABLE)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Writer (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writerCreateFault>(FAULT-DEFS, NAMESPACE-TABLE, FAULTTYPE)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Writer (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writerCreateHeader>(HEADER-DEFS, NS-TABLE, UNDERSTAND, DESTINATION)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Writer (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writerEncstyleHook>(NAMESPACE-TABLE)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Writer (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<writerHook>(NAMESPACE, LOCAL, ACTIONS)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Writer (internals)">

=back

=head2 Reader (internals)

$obj-E<gt>B<reader>(ARGS)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Reader (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readerEncstyleHook>

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Reader (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readerHook>(NAMESPACE, LOCAL, ACTIONS)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Reader (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readerParseBody>(BODYDEF)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Reader (internals)">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<readerParseHeader>(HEADERDEF)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Reader (internals)">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: an input message does not have faults

=over 4

=back

Error: headerfault does only exist in SOAP1.1

=over 4

=back

Error: option 'destination' only for writers

=over 4

=back

Error: option 'mustUnderstand' only for writers

=over 4

=back

Error: option 'role' only for readers

=over 4

=back

Error: option 'roles' only for readers

=over 4

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile-SOAP distribution version 0.55,
built on October 03, 2007. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2007 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

